- Version 1.6 (October 6th '94):
Some unpredictible errors occured in previous  version:  bould-in 
machine  code routines were developed and tested only  on  Falcon 
and Eagle systems,  and so I did't noticed that in some cases  on 
the 68000 machines, 3 bombs have appeared. This was because 68030 
and 68040 CPUs supports odd addressing and 68000 do not.  This is 
fixed now,  the whole program was reviewed and translated to  the 
universal  Motorola's  680x0  language,  that  however  makes  it 
somewhat  slower,  but who cares - the offsets in time  are  app. 
some nsec.  Problem with MS-DOS bytes offset is now fixed - a new 
version  of virus frame was programed (thank you Lazy Lion  II  - 
for  help with that).  Also,  an error occured with virus  attach 
vector:  Hdw_rw.  Instead of including another virus frame, I and 
Lazy  Lion  II  decided to removed the  hdw_rw  vector  attaching 
routine  from  virus  frame  and  replaced  it  with  hdw_mediach 
(hdw_mchn), but still even that routine doesn't work as it should 
be.  OK, and now my little lambs, here are improvements and other 
new stuff:
     ù A whole brand new GEM user interface was developed. It now 
supports  colour systems as well as monocrome.  Thanx to  Stephan 
Muenich's MyDials PD routines.  It also supports moving of dialog 
and   alert  boxes  around  the  screen  and   more   comfortable 
selections.
     ù UVD is now totaly compatibile with anykind of multitasking 
system (incl. MultiTos, Genova, Mag!X...)
     ù  In version 1.5 I didn't finished "virus info"  &  "spread 
factor"  options (icons),  now they are ready  to  use,  offering 
automatic calculation of virus spread factor,  lethaly level  and 
can  represent  some basic virus statistics and  informations  as 
well as virus compatibility.  This is very useful if you want  to 
be sure what kind of virus will you place on a floppy disk.
     ù  I have add automatic recording of UVD.INF  file,  keeping 
info such as number of total viruses released and builded,  total 
number of sessions and some other stuff,  which isn't  documented 
yet.

Version's  mains:  192  different bootsector  viruse,  6  oldies-
goldies viruses.

